# infovis_firstproject

This repo contains the first project for Information Visualization, a course held at the "Roma Tre University" by Prof. Maurizio Patrignani.

## Getting Started


If you want to upload data from an external file, we may encounter security problems related to the policies used by the particular Web Browser chosen. For this reason, an http server must be used.

Python must be installed.

With a terminal, use the prompt to navigate to the folder containing the index.html file and type: 
'python -m SimpleHTTPServer [porta]'.

## Prerequisites

Project requires a version 4 of D3, which is used in its minified version. 

## Design Specification
Create a json file with multivariate data: there are 10 data-points and each data-point has five quantitative variables whose values are all positive. Draw this dataset by means of a "parallel coordinates" diagram (consult the slides on the visualization of multivariate data) in which the first variable is used for the first axis, the second variable is used for the second axis and so on. By clicking with the left mouse button on the area between two axes they exchange places Make sure that the transformations are continuous and not jumps.

## Working Environment
The idea behind the project goes to exhibit a graph about the global emergency that has been going on in recent months.Especially, in this project the 10 most affected european countries were selected based on the number of infected people, currently positive number, number of deaths, number healed and mortality rate.
I want to clarify that the data were taken on the initial day of the project, so they are not permanently updated.

## How does it work?

The graph has been drawn with 5 parallel vertical axes, representing the 5 most interesting data for each European state. Starting from the default representation, they are represented in order: total number of infected by the virus, number of current positives (updated on 5 May), the number of deaths, the number of recovered and the mortality rate. The trend of each country is depicted in the legend. By dragging the axes, they can be reversed in position

## Additional features

A change has been made with respect to the delivery, as per agreements, which replaces the inversion of adjacent axes generated by a mouseclick event with the inversion due to the dragging.  In addition, to have a better display, a legend has been implemented, which allows the user to read one trend based on its color. When you drag 

## Sources

The statistics were collected from the website: https://statistichecoronavirus.it/coronavirus-europa/

## Author
Gianluca Visentin - gia.visentin@stud.uniroma3.it
